
=head1 NAME

=over 4

=item B<goldin> - Databank flat files indexer

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item B<goldin> [B<-ahiq>] [B<-d> F<dir>] F<dbase> F<file> ...

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

Following command line options are allowed:

=over 4

=item -a

Generate accession number indexes.

=item -b, --idx_dir

Generate index file in the specified directory. Default is '.'.

=item -c, --concat

Concatenates index files given in argument. Can only be used together with --idx_input. 
Arguments must be given with path and without extension (.acx or .idx). Goldin will deduce
the extension from the -a and -i flags (default is both).

ex:
goldin --idx_input -a my_bank index_dir/idx1 index_dir/idx2 index_dir/idx3 index_dir/idx4

will concatenate the 4 files idx1.acx, idx2.acx, idx3.acx, idx4.acx in index_dir and generate
a new file named my_bank.acx in the current directory.

=item -d F<dir>

Use alternate directory F<dir> (instead of default F<dbase>), to
retrieve the databanks entries. This option might be useful to index
databanks subsets.

=item -h

Usage display.

=item -i

Generate entry names indexes.

=item -p, --purge

Removes doublons from existing index file given in argument. Can only be used together with --idx_input.
Used with this option, goldin only allows 2 arguments : dbase and index file name (with path and without extension).
Beware: this functionnality only works if the file has previously been sorted.

ex:
goldin --idx_input  -a --idx_dir purged my_bank_p ./my_bank

will remove all doublons from index file my_bank.acx in current directory. It will produce a new file
called my_bank_p.acx in the "purged" directory. 

=item -q

Be quiet. Do not display some warning messages.

=item -s, --sort

Sorts existing index file. Writes output in new file.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<goldin> program update/create databanks flat files indexes, which
can be used by B<golden> program to make fast databanks entries
queries.

By default, both entry names and accession numbers indexes are
generated (same as setting B<-a> and B<-i> flags) in the current
working directory.

Indexed databank consist in 4 objects: 3 files generated by B<goldin>
program, and 1 directory holding flat files.

Version 3.0 of goldin can also work on existing index files. It provides 3 new functionnalities for that:
concatenation, sort and purge. For each of them a new output file is produced.

=over 4

=item B<foo.idx>

File containing entry names indexes.

=item B<foo.dbx>

File containing databank sections list.

=item B<foo.acx>

File containing accession numbers indexes.

=item B<foo/>

Directory holding databank flat files, if not set otherwise with B<-d>
flag.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item TMPDIR

If set, this directory is used to store temporary generated files;
instead of default F</tmp>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item B<golden>(1)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Nicolas Joly (njoly@pasteur.fr), VŽronique Legrand (vlegrand@pasteur.fr) Institut Pasteur.